Use terraform to maintain the organizational structure (#14)
django-commons/controls: README.md

- [New project](#new-project-playbook)
- [Remove project](#remove-project-playbook)

## New Member Playbook

1. Review new issues/application at https://github.com/django-commons/membership/issues/
2. If they are not a real human or not reasonably trustworthy, close the issue, asking for more information they are a human and not a spam bot. You can explain that by being a member, they can impact repositories immediately.
3. Add the user to the `members` collection in the [`terraform/production/org.tfvars`](https://github.com/django-commons/controls/blob/main/terraform/production/org.tfvars) file.
   ```terraform
     members = [
       # ...
       "new_user"
     ] 
   ```

> 5. If they requested to be on specific repository team(s), in the [`terraform/production/teams.tfvars`](https://github.com/django-commons/controls/blob/main/terraform/production/teams.tfvars) file, for the repository's key under `teams_repositories`, add them to the `members` collection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. If they requested to be on specific repository team(s), find that team's repository in the [`terraform/production/teams.tfvars`](https://github.com/django-commons/controls/blob/main/terraform/production/teams.tfvars) file under `teams_repositories`. Add the new user to the `members` collection.
```

   ```terraform
     teams_repositories = {
       "[REPOSITORY]" = {
         # ...
         members = [
           # ...
           "new_user"
         ]
       }
     }
   ```
6. Create a pull-request to `main` branch, it will trigger terraform to plan the changes in the organization to be
   executed. Review the changes and make sure they align with the request.

> 7. Merge the pull-request, it will trigger terraform to apply the changes in the organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Merge the pull request. This will trigger terraform to apply the changes to the organization.
```

## Team Change Playbook

> 1. If they are not a real human or not reasonably trustworthy, close the issue, asking for more information they are a human and not a spam bot. You can explain that by being a member, they can impact repositories immediately.

Reviewer: @tim-schilling Sounds good, thank you for clarifying!

2. For the requested repository's team(s), in the [`terraform/production/teams.tfvars`](https://github.com/django-commons/controls/blob/main/terraform/production/teams.tfvars) file, for the repository's key under `teams_repositories`, add them to the `members` collection.
   ```terraform
     teams_repositories = {
       "[REPOSITORY]" = {
         # ...
         members = [
           # ...
           "new_user"
         ]
       }
     }
   ```
3. Create a pull-request to `main` branch, it will trigger terraform to plan the changes in the organization to be
   executed. Review the changes and make sure they align with the request.
4. Merge the pull-request, it will trigger terraform to apply the changes in the organization.

## New Repository Admin or Committer Playbook

> 1. Confirm with all existing admins that they are okay with the change

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Confirm with all existing admins that they approve changes to the repository admins or committers. 
```

> 2. If there's disagreement, close the issue and ask for the admins to come to a consensus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. If there's disagreement, close the issue and ask for the admins to come to a consensus.
```

3. For the requested repository's team(s), in the [`terraform/production/teams.tfvars`](https://github.com/django-commons/controls/blob/main/terraform/production/teams.tfvars)
   file, for the repository's key under `teams_repositories_privileged`, add them to the `members` collection for the correct team. There will be two privileged teams for each repository, `*-admins` and `*-committers`, the user should be added to the requested team.
   ```terraform
     teams_repositories_privileged = {
       "[REPOSITORY]-[admins | committers]" = {
         # ...
         members = [
           # ...
           "new_user"
         ]
       }
     }
   ```

> 4. Create a pull-request to `main` branch, it will trigger terraform to plan the changes in the organization to be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Create a pull request to `main` branch. This will trigger terraform to plan the changes in the organization to be
```

   executed. Review the changes and make sure they align with the request.

> 5. Merge the pull-request, it will trigger terraform to apply the changes in the organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Merge the pull request. This will trigger terraform to apply the changes in the organization.
```

## New Project Playbook

1. Check if repository

>    meets [inbound requirements](https://github.com/django-commons/membership/blob/main/incoming_repo_requirements.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   meets [inbound requirements](https://github.com/django-commons/membership/blob/main/incoming_repo_requirements.md).
```

   with repo owner to transfer repo
7. Wait for repository transferred in
8. [Run new team action](https://github.com/django-commons/controls/actions/workflows/new_team.yml)
9. [Make Terraform changes to add new project](#terraform-changes-to-add-a-new-project)
10. [Configure environments](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/administering-github-actions/managing-environments-for-deployment#creating-an-environment) pypi and testpypi in the repository to enable [publishing packages via GitHub Actions](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/publishing-package-distribution-releases-using-github-actions-ci-cd-workflows/#)
11. For pypi environment, add Deployment protection rule with reviewers as [repo]-admins and enable "Allow
    administrators to bypass configured protection rules"
12. Under Actions > General > "Fork pull request workflows from outside collaborators", set "Require approval for
    first-time contributors"
13. Set a calendar event or reminder for 30 days in the future to remove previous repository owner from team

### Terraform changes to add a new project

Assuming repository name is `repo-name`:

> 1. In [`terraform/production/respositories.tfvars`](https://github.com/django-commons/controls/blob/main/terraform/production/respositories.tfvars), Add the new repository to the `repositories` section:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In [`terraform/production/respositories.tfvars`](https://github.com/django-commons/controls/blob/main/terraform/production/respositories.tfvars), add the new repository to the `repositories` section:
```

   relevant members:
   ```terraform
   teams_repositories = {
      # ...
      "repo-name" = {
         description = "repo-name team"         
         members = [
           # Put the user from Step 5 here
           "username",
         ]
         permission = "triage"
         repositories = [
           "repo-name",
         ]
     }
   }
   ```
3. Add two new child teams `repo-name-admins` and `repo-name-committers` for the repository in the `teams_repositories_privileged`
   section with the relevant members:
   ```terraform
   teams_repositories_privileged = {
      # ...
      "repo-name-admins" = {
         description = "repo-name admins team"
         parent_team_key = "repo-name"    
         members = [
           # Put the user from Step 5 here
           "username",
         ]
         permission = "admin"
     }
     "repo-name-committers" = {
         description = "repo-name committers team"
         parent_team_key = "repo-name"
         members = [
           # Leave empty unless there are committers ready to be designated
         ]
         permission = "push"
     }
   }
   ```

> 4. Create a pull-request to `main` branch, it will trigger terraform to plan the changes in the organization to be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Create a pull request to the `main` branch. This will trigger terraform to plan the changes in the organization to be
```

   executed. Review the changes and make sure they align with the request.
5. Merge the pull-request, it will trigger terraform to apply the changes in the organization.

## Remove Project Playbook

1. Confirm there's agreement amongst current project maintainers to move project out of Django Commons
2. Add new Owner(s) to project in PyPI
3. [Transfer GitHub repo to new owner or Org](https://github.com/orgs/django-commons/people)
4. Wait for repository to be transferred out.
5. Remove all Django Commons members from PyPI project (except any that are staying on from step 2)
6. (TODO: Determine how to handle transferring a PyPI project out of an organization)

### Terraform changes to remove a project

1. Remove the repository from the `repositories` section in [`terraform/production/respositories.tfvars`](https://github.com/django-commons/controls/blob/main/terraform/production/respositories.tfvars)
2. Remove the parent team and child teams for the repository from the `teams_repositories` and `teams_repositories_privileged` sections in
   [`terraform/production/teams.tfvars`](https://github.com/django-commons/controls/blob/main/terraform/production/teams.tfvars)

> 3. Create a pull-request to `main` branch, it will trigger terraform to plan the changes in the organization to be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Create a pull request to the `main` branch. This will trigger terraform to plan the changes in the organization to be
```
